1 Decomposition Story: Rational Numbers
Welcome to a story about decomposition.
This story shows why decomposition is important in program design, how to deconstruct a relatively large all-in-one program into smaller reusable modules.

2 What the Program Does
What the Program Does
Here you can see the original all-in-one program.

What does it do?

It interacts with a user, asking them:

to input a rational number,
and another one,
to specify, what to do with them,
and then print the result (sum or product).
All of these actions are implemented as a single method, besides the gcd method.

3 Rational Numbers
Let's refresh our memory of Rational Numbers. A number is Rational, if it is expressed as the quotient of two integers, like a/b:
The first integer, a is called numerator.
The second integer, b is called denominator.
Sum of rational numbers may be computed as follows:
a/b + c/d = (ad + bc)/bd
Product of rational numbers may be computed as follows:
a/b * c/d = ac/bd
If a rational number is expressed as irreducible fraction a/b, where a and b are coprime, we call it a canonical form. E.g., canonical form of 4/8 is 1/2.
To be sure to print the sum or the product in the canonical form, we use gcd method, which is for calculating the Greatest Common Divisor.
We find GCD of the numerator and the denominator of the result and reduce it before the output.

4 The Program Issues
Now that we understand what the program does and how it handles the specifics of rational numbers, let's figure out the issues that this program has.
Well, at first glance it does what it's supposed to do. Is that not sufficient?
The main issue is that the program does everything at once. There are no reusable parts. Also, it takes some decent effort to read and understand it.
Another thing to keep in mind: a well-maintained program product lives and develops with time.
Let's imagine that we are asked to edit the program to add an option to divide the numbers. We will have to dig through the entire program.
And what if we have to take care of incorrect input, like zero denominator, for example? Or zero numerator when we want to divide one number by another?

5 Decomposition Plan
Let's see what we can do to decompose the program and to localize issues.
First, we can create a special class to represent rational numbers and extract all the related operations into it.
We could extract the user interaction to insert a rational number to avoid repeating ourselves.
We can also abstract the user conversation on what operation to conduct. That would probably make adding more operations an easier task.
So, let us start with decomposition at last.

6 Rational Number Class
We start with creating a RationalNumber class.
Obviously, it will contain numerator and denominator fields and a constructor to set them up.
Note that fields are final: we are going to make RationalNumber objects immutable.
Also, we provide a simple toString implementation that will make printing rational numbers easier.

7 Rational Number Operations
Let us drag the sum and multiply operations from the main program to the RationalNumber class. We now have:
an add method to compute the sum of two rational numbers,
an multiply method to compute the product,
and the gcd method that we had to bring to this class since the original operations in the main program use it.

8 Forcing the Canonical Form
When the rational numbers are extracted into a separate class, it is easier to find flaws and fix them.
For instance, we can see that gcd method is used in add and multiply methods to make sure the result would be a rational number in the canonical form.
It is obvious that this reducing is the same in both methods. If so, why would not we extract it into a single point of creating a rational number: the constructor?
Let us do it!

9 Forcing the Canonical Form
Now, we use gcd in the constructor and set numerator and denominator already reduced. Since this moment, all the rational numbers defined
by RationalNumber class are in the canonical form by default!
Also, we can worry no more on reducing results in add and multiply methods, or any other operations we will add to this class in the future.

10 Applying the RationalNumber Class in the Main.class
Let us apply the RationalNumber in the main program.
First, we need to build RationalNumber objects of first and second operands. Yes, it will slightly increase the size of the main program, but we will
drastically reduce it with following changes:
the summing operation is reduced to a simple call,
the multiplicatiing operation is reduced to another simple call,
and gcd method is removed from the main program since we don't need it here anymore.

11 What we do next?
Alright, we have extracted the business logic of rational numbers into a standalone class and have benefitted from applying it in the main program.
What do you think we are going to do next? Take a look at the main program and select the issue that bothers you the most.
What we do next?
We have not done with RationalNumber - I feel that there are some flaws to fix.
+++ These input number dialogues are screaming for extracting.
That endless while(true){...} cycle looks so imperfect

12 Rational Number Interactive Reader
Yes, we will extract an action of the rational number input.
The only part that differs in two subsequent dialogues to enter rational numbers in main program is the name of the variable to enter: first and second.
So, let us extract it to a field of the special class RationalNumberInteractiveReader. This class will encapsulate the whole dialogue of entering a rational number.
Then we add a constructor to set the variable name and a method to interact with a user and read a rational number.

13 Applying of the Rational Number Interactive Reader
Now, we can replace a big segment of main program with handling dialogues by two RationalNumberInteractiveReader objects.
As you can see, the main program becomes more compact and readable, since we abstract its parts and use more high-level objects to describe its business process.
But there are still a set of low-level details:
an endless loop of handling the conversation of choosing of an operation to perform. Abstracting it would be a bit more difficult.

14 How to abstract the Command Conversation
First, why would we abstract it, besides its tendency to be low-level? The main reason to do this is to make adding of new operations easier.
Again, imagine adding a division operation:
you have to update the initial message,
then you need to add another if-perform-break code block, like for the SUM or MULT operations,
also, you must not forget about the retry message.
And if it still does not seem like a lot of work to you, imagine adding several such operations independently by different developers:
it is a recipe of a clinch of merging.
Okay then, how do we make it more modular? Well, looks like we have a bunch of similar code blocks, if-perform-break operations as we have referenced them before.
Let us call them commands.
Each one of the commands has some sort of a tag which must coincide with the user input to activate it and complete the conversation.
All of the commands are collected into a conversation. The conversation is responsible for activation of a command that relates to the user input.
Another minor function is printing the initial and retry messages.
So, we need to abstract commands and a conversation that handles a bunch of commands.

15 Command
Let us start with commands.
We know that all of the commands share a part of functionality:
they have a tag,
they have an operation to perform when activated.
So, it is convenient to express a command as an abstract class with extensions that specify their own way to perform a related operation, but still share a common API:
a constructor to set a tag value,
a getter to let a conversation collect tags from the commands.
a checking trigger to define if the input value coincides with the command tag.
an abstract operation method to call when activated.
Next let's see how a conversation can manage such commands.

16 Conversation
A conversation owns an array of commands as a field. It is convenient to set them as varargs in a constructor.
So, the whole conversation is now extracted into a run method:
we collect all the tags of the commands to print an initial message,
we read a user input, then look for a command that fits,
if such command exists, we execute it and complete the conversation,
if none of the commands fit, we print a retry message, a list of command tags and go for another iteration.
Note that we have to use a label to notify the break operation to exit the conversation cycle, not just the for-each cycle for the commands array.

17 Command Implementations
Before we can apply the Conversation class, we have to provide extensions of the Command abstract class:
PrintSumCommand prints the sum of two rational numbers,
PrintProductCommand prints the product of two rational numbers.
The classes are very similar:
they ask for two rational numbers in constructors in addition to the tag value,
they compute a result and print it to System.out, when activated.

18 Applying of Commands and the Conversation
Now we can replace the while(true){…} conversation cycle in the main program with:
the initialization of a conversation,
providing a print sum and a print product operations as its commands,
and launching it.
Now the main program looks very compact and straightforward, since we have extracted all the low-level details into reusable modules - classes and methods.
Let us review our new code base again and see what parts could be improved.

19 Refactoring the Conversation
First, let us get back to Conversation class. You might have noticed that its run method is still quite big.
We have extracted it to make the main program look concise and high level. But can we also do something to make the Conversation class look better too?
Well, at least we can extract printing initial and retry messages into special methods to avoid distracting from main responsibility
of the run method - the cycle of looking for an appropriate command and executing it.

20 Fixing the Command
Let's take a look at the Command class. Probably you have noticed that the original program ignored the case of user input when asked them to enter the operation,
but Command asks for a complete coincidence.
We can easily fix it. Note that this fix applies to all the commands extending the Command abstract class, and we do not have to repeat it elsewhere.

21 Enhancing the RationalNumber
At last, let us look at RationalNumber.
At the first steps we have noticed that the denominator of a rational number cannot be zero, but we did not set any checks to ensure that yet.
Let us do it. We will raise an appropriate exception if the input value of the denominator would be zero.

22 Enhancing the RationalNumber
Another possible enhancement is the special handling of output of zero values: if numerator is zero, the denominator value does not matter.
So, we can establish a special output for a zero values.

23 Refactoring
As you see, refactorings are easier when you apply them to smaller pieces of code that have less responsibilities.
Think for a bit, what other enhancements would you apply? What ways for further improvements in RationalNumber do you see? Or would you rather take some actions
in Conversation and Command classes? Maybe, some considerations over RationalNumberInteractiveReader? Anyway, it is way more convenient to think about it
when the codebase is decoupled into reusable modules.

24 New feature: a Dividing Operation
Refactoring is not the only beneficiary of the decomposition - it is also very suitable when you need to add some new features.
Let us add one: it would be an operation of dividing two rational numbers and printing the result.
Having the codebase divided into modules, we easily can decompose the new feature as well:
first, we will add a method of dividing into the RationalNumber class,
then we add a Command extension to handle "divide and print" operation,
finally, we add the new command into a conversation in the main program.
Sounds easy, let us proceed to implementation.

25 Dividing: RationalNumber
Implementing the dividing operation is very straightforward:
a/b : c/d = ad/bc

26 Dividing: RationalNumber
Actually, it is equivalent to a multiplying by an reciprocal(multiplicative inverse) of a second operand):
a/b : c/d = a/b * d/c = ad/bc
So, we can just leverage the existing multiply method.

27 Dividing: PrintDivideCommand
Next, let us add a new PrintDivideCommand.
It is very similar to existing PrintDivideCommand and PrintSumCommand. The only difference is that it uses the new divide method.

28 Dividing: Main Program
And the last easy step is to introduce new DIV command to our conversation in the main program.
So, in three easy steps we have added a new feature to our application. Probably, adding it to the original program would take not a much coding effort,
but it would not let us to easily break the task into three isolated steps, so we would have to consider more concepts and levels of abstraction
at once when designing a solution.

29 Decomposition Story: Rational Numbers
That concludes the Decomposition Story: Rational Numbers.
You have seen an example of a relatively big all-in-one program that is hard to read and comprehend and requires to be extra cautious when introducing any new features.
Then we have decoupled it into smaller pieces of code, classes and methods. Each one of them is easier to understand, since it is isolated do not require
keeping all the original program in mind.
That classes are also easier to enhance, refactor and fix. And it is quite easier to build a new feature from such small building blocks rather than trying to edit
the whole original program at once.
One more important thing is that original program was only suitable for a single purpose. It was not reusable at all.
But classes and methods we have introduced while decomposing allow to build other solutions. For instance, we could create a program that reads a bunch of rational
numbers from a file and sum them all and send the result by e-mail, using the same RationalNumber class. Or we could implement a program similar to an original one,
but for complex numbers, using the same Conversation and Command classes.
Hopefully, now you better understand importance of decomposition and how to achieve it in practice.

