Classes
• A class is the blueprint from which individual objects are
created.
• A class is a representation, abstract but representation of
reality, entities will be living in our programs.
• A class could contain some attributes which define its
characteristics.
• A class could contain some methods to perform operations
with itself or another objects from same class or another
• A class could be a point of entrance a program,
a helper object, a way to interact with other.
• Classes are very difficult to understand
because all in them are optional and depends
on your design.
• Creating classes will be more easy if you
practice modeling all exist around your daily
life and job.

Declaring Classes
• The class body contains all the code that provides for the life cycle of the
objects created from the class:
• Constructors for initializing new objects
• Declarations for the fields that provide the state of the class and its
objects.
• Methods to implement the behavior of the class and its objects.

The preceding class declaration is a minimal one.
You can provide more information about the class, such
as the name of its superclass, whether it implements any
interfaces, and so, at the start of the class declaration.
In general, class declarations can include these components, in
order:
1. Access Modifiers such as public, private, and others.
2. The class name, with the initial letter capitalized by convention.
3. The name of the class's parent (superclass), if any, preceded by
the keyword extends.
4. A comma-separated list of interfaces implemented by the class,
if any, preceded by the keyword implements.
5. The class body, surrounded by braces, {}.

Declaring Member Variables
There are several kinds of variables:
• Member variables in a class—these are called fields.
• Variables in a method or block of code—these are
called local variables.
• Variables in method declarations—these are called
parameters.

Field declarations are composed of three components, in order:
Zero or more modifiers, such as public or private.
The field's type.
The field's name.

Declaring Methods
Here is an example of a typical method declaration:
The only required elements of a method declaration are the method's
return type, name, a pair of parentheses, (), and a body between
braces, {}.
More generally, method declarations have six components, in
order:
Modifiers—such as public, private, and others.
The return type—the data type of the value returned by
the method, or void if the method does not return a value.
The method name—the rules for field names apply to
method names as well, but the convention is a little
different.
The parameter list in parenthesis—a comma-delimited list
of input parameters, preceded by their data types,
enclosed by parentheses, (). If there are no parameters,
you must use empty parentheses.
An exception list.
The method body, enclosed between braces—the
method's code, including the declaration of local variables.
