1) OOP Encapsulation Story
Welcome to a story about encapsulation. This story shows why encapsulation is important in OOP, and what basic Java tools we can employ to achieve encapsulation.

2) Person class
Take a look at the class Person.
At first, it looks simple and concise. It contains two public fields: name and age.

3) Using Person class
The problem of the Person class is that it is not comfortable to use.

Look at client code in PersonTest. Usage of Person class requires several commands to setup an instance of it:

we have to call a constructor to create a Person object,
then we have to assign a name
and age.

4) Illegal values
Also, the Person class does not check assigned values, so we can easily create a person with null or empty name or negative age.

5) Private fields
So, let's edit the Person class to resolve those issues.

First, we make fields name and age private, so client code can't access them.

Instead, let client code specify those values as constructor arguments

Also, note that defining a constructor prevents the creation of a default constructor with no arguments.
So client code can't create a Person instance without providing name and age values.

6) Constructor call
That is how client code may create a Person object via constructor.

7) Constructor call with illegal values
There is still a problem - nothing prevents assigning illegal values to constructor arguments. So client code is still able
to create a person with empty name or negative age.

8) Constructor arguments check
Let's fix this problem.

First, we set up a check for the name argument. We consider null or empty values illegal, so when the constructor gets such a name value,
it throws an IllegalArgumentException with a related message.

Same behavior is applied when getting a negative age value.

Throwing an exception prevents Person object creating and signals the client code about an error.
Throwing an exception is a normal practice to create or keep objects in a consistent state.

9) Constructor arguments check (Test)
So now, client code can't create a Person with invalid values.

10) Fields are inaccessible to read
You probably noticed that assertion commands in test have disappeared. It is due to the fact that now fields are private and inaccessible outside of the class.
We hide them to control assignment of values and prevent illegal ones, but one of the consequences is that client code also can’t read a person's name or age.

11) Getters
In order to provide access to name and age values, we can define special methods:

getName()
getAge()
Such methods ("get" + field name with capitalized first letter) are called "getters".

Those methods simply return field values. It is applicable in our case, because name is String and therefore is immutable, and age is int and is transferred by value.

If a field is a mutable object (e.g. array) it is not safe to just return it, because client code can modify it and that modification will be
uncontrollably applied to the field of our object. So to prevent this, a getter should return a copy of the field value. It is usually called "defensive copy".

12) Getters
Getters allow getting name and age values.

13) Cannot set values
Next issue to discuss - client code can't set values to Person objects after they are created.

Actually, classes allowing no changes to their state after creation are called "immutable". Sometimes it is a very useful concept,
but in our case we will provide ability to change age or name.

14) Setters
Similarly to getters, there is a concept of "setters" - special methods to set values. Pattern for setter naming is "set" + field name with capitalized first letter.

So, let's add setName and setAge.

15) Setters usage
Now, client code can change name and age of existing objects.

16) Setters usage problem
Sadly, now client code can also assign illegal values via setters.

So, the issue is back: name may be empty and age may be negative.

17) Checks in setters
To fix the problem, let's apply same checks in setName() and setAge() methods as we do in the constructor.

18) Checks in setters (extract methods)
Actually, it is not a good idea to duplicate code like this. Imagine a situation that we would like to apply some special check on name value, e.g.
regexp check. Then we must not forget to alter code same way several times in different places. There is even a special principle that urges us
to beware such a situation - DRY: Do not Repeat Yourself.

Let's extract checks into special methods: checkName() and checkAge(). Now we can just call those methods to check arguments in the constructor(name, age)
and in setters (name, age)

19) Checks in setters: usage
Now assignment of illegal name and age values would throw an exception.

20) Aging protocol
Now, let's take a look at the age setter.

Sadly, human beings are not getting younger. So, we can say that there is no reason to let setting any age.

We may define another protocol for changing age - incrementing it. So, each time a person has a birthday party, we may increment age by one.

21) incrementAge
So instead of regular setter we define an incrementAge method.

This step increases Person object's consistency in a way - now the policy of how age can be changed is strictly defined inside
Person class and can't be altered outside.

22) incrementAge usage
Now, client code may only increment age via incrementAge method and can't set it voluntarily.

We could also define a policy for setting names, e.g. marry and take married name. But let us say it is legal to change your
own name any way you like.

23) Encapsulation
So now you have witnessed the application of the encapsulation principle in action:

We have hidden all the fields and implementation details from the client code.
We have established our own terms of what input values our class accepts.
We have established a protocol of how client code may get and alter state of instances of our class.
All of that changes developed Person from a plain structure to a truly object-oriented class.

